# Etiquette

This document describes the etiquette desired to create a pleasant atmosphere.
You can think of it as a supplement or extension of the rules. Everything here
is "softly defined" and is not meant as a cut and dry interpretation.

## R2. Be Nice
Surprisingly, this means you should be nice to eachother. Do not be dismissive
to someone else's opinion. This is not meant to encourage "*special snowflake*"
behavior, but to discourage unnecessary put downs. This also means no flame
wars or derogatory remarks.

Ex
```
A: "I prefer Vim"
B: "Vim sucks, Emacs is better"
```

Healthy debates about such topic are encouraged though. You never know what you
can learn from someone else.


## Links are king
If you find something particularly interesting on a website, share your source.
Playing [telephone](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_whispers) by relaying
the page to make yourself seem smart is not helpful.


## Don't Undermine Mods
The mods are here to make a pleasant environment for everyone. Do not actively
question authoritative actions by the mods. If they say something is not
appropriate for the server then it needs to be let go.


## Channels in Detail
A more in depth explanation about what topics the channels are meant to be used
for.

### general
A catch-all for everything not covered by the other channels.

### channel
For talking about specific videos or anything related to the Youtube channel or
its production.

### tech
Computers, electronics, multimedia, programming, and more. If electricity powers it, discuss it here.

### games
Board or video, PC or console, old or new. Games go here.

### share
Link to things you've made or from others. Think of this channel as a place to share stuff you would share with the "share" button in a mobile app.

### show
Show off stuff you got, purchased, found, or already own! Think of it as a place to "show and tell" about relevant things.

### the-dmz
Memes, arguments with no possible resolution, low brow humor, talking for
talkings sake, fact dumps without context, and politics should all go here.

As a note about politics; friendly discussion is fine, however, things tend to get
heated. This usually makes others feel uncomfortable about joining it, which is
why I'd like to keep general clear, so other discussions can continue.

What counts as political discussion will be loosely defined as "Anything
countries typically make laws about". This will likely be determined on a
case-by case basis.

### vc-general
Intended to be an extension of the voice channels, for posting photos, links, and some minor conversation.

### Voice Channels
General discussion pertaining to the names of the channels; as with the text channels, the same rules apply.


## Choosing a Channel to Post In

This might seem self explanatory but I would like expand upon this. The nature 
of Discord is sequential messages in finite parallel paths. So there are a 
limited number of places you can begin a discussion. By contrast, Reddit has 
infinite parallel messages in infinite parallel paths. And a forum would have 
sequential messages in infinite parallel paths. Discord is slightly unusual 
compared to other forms of high volume discussion in that there isn't a unique 
place for you to go to start a conversation. 

So given your limited choices, what do you do if the channel with the topic 
related to the discussion you would like to have is busy? The only socially 
acceptable answer that doesn't violate rules, is to wait. Each channel has a 
topic for a reason. If not, then they may as well be called chat rooms with 
numbers and people would just end up bouncing between rooms with no sense of 
organization. Adding extra channels such as "Tech 1", "Tech 2", etc is fighting 
against the very nature of what Discord is. 

A discussion could be considered busy if there is an ongoing conversation with 
several people involved where adding a message unrelated to the discussion 
would clearly disrupt the flow. Most of the time channels have disjointed 
messages that are brief discussions of something and it won't take long for it 
to come to a conclusion.

## Off Topic Discussion
This happens and that is fine. Conversations naturally evolve and can become 
about something completely different. Or something could merely be anecdotal. 
It can be hard to tell when a conversation has become off topic when you are 
part of it. As long as everyone in that channel is fine with that conversation 
continuing, you don't need to worry about changing channels. But if you are 
talking about something off topic and someone else requests that you move to 
the appropriate channel, you should oblige that request and move. As the 
previous section covers, they may be waiting to have a discussion in that 
channel of their own.
